---
layout: post
title: Pantyshot 0.2.1
author: Frank
date: 2011-06-05 20:30:30 +0100
categories: [Python, Markdown, Upskirt, C]
---

Last month I noticed [Upskirt][1] on Github and since I also started with C on
school around the same time I decided to make a Python extension/binding.
It's not much more than a simple wrapper that has almost the same API as the C
library.

Go to the [Pantyshot website][2] for documentation and downloads.

I've also included a little benchmark in this release, but I forgot to mention
it in the changelog. All the latest versions (at the time of writing) of the
Markdown parsers that I could find on PyPi are included. Here are the
results:

    Pantyshot: 0.040000
    Markdown: 4.900000
    markdown2: 7.350000
    cMarkdown: 0.090000
    discount: 0.160000

That's the output in seconds from Pythons' [time.clock()][3].

Pantyshot and cMarkdown are both bindings for Upskirt, but Pantyshot is twice as
fast. This is because cMarkdown hasn't been updated since April and lots of things
has been changed in Upskirt since then. That probably causes the difference.

Markdown and markdown2 are both fully implemented in Python. discount is
written in C. These three are slower than the Upskirt-based extensions.

The benchmark script and data can be found [in the Github repository][4]. The
following versions of the Markdown extensions were used:

    Pantyshot 0.2.1
    Markdown 2.0.3
    markdown2 1.0.1.17
    cMarkdown 0.1.1
    discount: 0.2.1STABLE

I ran the benchmark with Python 2.7.1 on Arch Linux.


 [1]: https://github.com/tanoku/upskirt
 [2]: http://pantyshot.61924.nl/
 [3]: http://docs.python.org/library/time.html#time.clock
 [4]: https://github.com/FSX/pantyshot/tree/master/benchmark